Um hello everyone my name is Vadim
Belski and I'm head of AI and principal
architect at scienceoft. I have uh more
than 18 years experience in uh IT
working across healthcare fi finance and
other regulated industries and uh
[clears throat]
uh in my career I have had on experience
developing and delivering high impactful
solutions uh from the global scale
e-commerce platforms and communication
apps to the blockchain based supply
chains and AIdriven health care
assistance. Among my recent projects uh
is a HIPPA compliant healthcare AI
scheduleuler
uh featuring the first integration of
Amazon Nova Sonic speechtoech uh model
they introduced recently with
integration with the live kit media
server. Today I focus on helping
healthcare providers from the Gulf to
implement agents and improve their
communication and automate clinical
workflows.
>> Hello everyone, thank you so much for
joining our webinar. I am Hadil Abu
Bakr, a senior healthcare IT consultant
and business analyst at Science Soft uh
with over 15 years experience uh in
healthcare IT and digital health
innovation. Uh focusing on AIdriven
patient solutions and outcome focused AI
adoption. Uh I am based in UEE and
proficient in GCC uh local clinical
workflow and IT ecosystem.
Sayansoft is uh is IT uh company uh with
36 years in the market, 20 years in
healthcare IT uh specifically in
healthcare IT domain. uh we implemented
more than 150 projects in healthcare
domain and we have more uh uh 750 plus
employees, IT specialists and healthcare
consultants with the medical doctor
degrees and we are proficient with
healthcare data standards.
Soft engulf. Uh we have offices in KSA
and UAE and we are actively cooperating
with both government and private
healthcare providers uh especially in UE
and KSA. Uh our solutions always um uh
ensured to be aligned with all uh vision
and initiatives available in the Gulf
region. uh for example Sudi vision 2030,
Oman vision 2040 or UEE strategy 20uh 25
and Qatar uh vision 2030. Uh we will uh
deliver solutions always uh easily and
uh seamlessly to be integrated with uh
known and standard initiatives or uh uh
compliance or applications such as NIF
and was in Saudi Arabia. And we always
comply with the standards for example
Abu Dhabi health for information cyber
security in Abu Dhabi or NHA in uh
Bahrain.
In uh today webinar as you know uh our
session is focused on AI agents in
healthcare domain and we will be happy
to show you multiple uh of practical
demos how AI agents can help in that
especially in appointment scheduling or
triage and we will talk more uh deeply
about uh AI scribing or how to summarize
patients medical history and of course
we will share with you the technology
the architecture behind all of these uh
uh AI agents and demos and some
guidelines uh about security compliance
uh regulations and
how to measure the uh those agents
efficiently and some core KPIs and what
is the next step if you would like to uh
continue and apply such agents in your
organization.
Uh so before we dive deep uh into the
demos uh let me set the context. Health
care providers face capacity crunch.
Phone lines are constantly busy staff
under pressure the missed appointments
and this leads to uh typical revenue
losses. Uh just imagine an employer who
works 24/7. Uh it could support your
patients. It could handle chats inbound
or outbound calls with the patients. So
this could be integrated with the EHR
system of your hospital and as a result
this could reduce the weight times uh
fewer no-shows
um and actually it could reclaim the
staff hours and improve the patient
satisfaction as a result.
So now uh we will show you a demo how uh
patient uh will be calling to the clinic
and uh after um after the verification
of his personal details uh an agent will
pick up his patient record and uh help
him to schedule an appointment. Let's
see.
>> Hello.
>> Thank you for calling our clinic. How
can I help you today? Are you calling to
book, reschedule, or cancel an
appointment?
>> I'm calling to book an appointment.
>> Great. Let's get started. Well, to
verify your identity, could you please
provide your full name first?
>> Uh, Vim Bowski.
>> Thank you, Vim. Let's move on to your
date of birth. Could you please provide
that for me?
>> December 30, 1983.
>> Thank you, Vine. Lastly, could you
provide the last four digits of your
social security number?
>> 3130.
Thank you, Vim. Your identity has been
verified. Now, could you please tell me
your preferred date and time for the
appointment?
>> Uh, tomorrow 9:00 a.m.
>> I'm sorry, Vim, but there are no
available slots for tomorrow at 9:00
a.m. The earliest available slot is at
2:00 p.m. Would you like to book an
appointment at that time?
>> Um, let me check. Yes, I would like.
Your appointment has been successfully
booked, Vidim. Your appointment ID is
47932318.
The doctor will be waiting for you. Have
a nice day.
>> Bye-bye.
>> Um, so on this demo,
>> hello.
>> Oh, thank you for call.
>> Sorry.
On this demo, um, how it's made probably
the architecture of the demo is pretty
straightforward. We have a realtime
media server that connect to the
telephoneony line. It could execute
inbolt or outbound calls. The agent
behind the scene of media server have
access to knowledge bases. It consist
the agent itself constructed from the
three modules and they are ASR automatic
speech recognition uh LLM uh which is
the reasoning or let's say a brain of
the agent which understands the dialogue
itself and make decisions based on this
dialogue and um text to speech the uh
the last model. So all three parts could
could be combined in a single model.
Right now on the market you you can find
realtime models that combine all three
parts in into the one um model or this
could be a separate models depending on
your scenario.
Uh the main idea here is the
capabilities. So the agent could be
exposed to uh any telephon um
cooperation with the patient. So make
outbound calls and receive inbound
calls.
Um so beyond the scheduling u a smart
call center assistant can do additional
capabilities.
So it could u make u uh and automate the
routine operations.
It could provide uh pre-procedure
instructions and follow-ups during the
calls
uh and call make outbound calls to the
patients and instruct them that they
should be ready. Don't forget u to
follow the specific procedure
steps and what's more important it also
collect uh the dialogue itself. It can
have a different capabilities and guide
the conversation. It can um uh have lots
of questioner question embedded into it
and follow some specific standards.
Um let's go next. So what's behind the
scene? Uh the technology is pretty
straightforward. Um we we can access the
uh EHR patient record. We can make a
scheduleuler on top of this which will
pick up um an information of whom I
should inform today. The call
orchestration engine will initiate the
calls and probably it it it sends into
the agent an information about the
patient procedure uh the co the phone
number I should call and uh um some
additional details uh supply the uh and
and based on those information agent
itself can execute the call uh it goes
to the special storage vector database
and uh execute retrie augmented
generation this is technology
allowing to uh add additional context or
let's say knowledge or some domain
specific knowledge into your agent which
allows the agent to talk on the complex
um uh matters and to follow some
specific procedures and follow specific
rules.
uh with those
technology we first should think about
the costs and what are the costs they
are also pretty clear and you should
imagine the cost uh could be structured
in the following way the infrastructure
cost which is compute resources uh and
for for the comput resources it's not
only agent itself but it it stoages
monitoring analytics and evaluations uh
software this types of software is
required to for the operations of such
an agents. Then there is a pricing for
your telephone line and the pricing on
the telephone is typically different for
inbound on and outbone calls. For in
phone calls, you should typically have
uh a phone number attached uh to a line
and based and client uh calling to this
phone number probably will um uh will
meet your agent and outbound calls
typically costs uh per minute. So
executing an outbound calls um is also
pretty straightforward and you pay as
you go.
uh another type of uh cost came from the
inference itself and inference is a type
of uh probably this is your AI
intelligence and this type of the
compute resources uh which uh came from
the uh models itself and the models
utilization you probably can go with the
uh providers uh who provide access to
the AI models or you can use an
open-source models and can host on your
premises and this is a differentiator
and depending on your scenario depending
on the regula regulation and your
specific case you should um choose the
right way for you and another part of
cost is IT support for sure someone u
should support the operations of this
agent like any other software um
so what I would like to say next is that
uh as I mentioned There are three pieces
of the agent and those three pieces
we can why why I separate them is uh
just give you an idea that you can uh
that the solution is modular and you can
select uh solutions for all each of the
bees depending on your scenario. uh for
example the ASR typically you should
think about it as the technologies that
capture the um uh conversation and uh
what what patients speak what doctors
speak and uh other things and depending
um on the environment uh if it's a
multicultural environment you you may
think about changing or adopting or
using the ASR model specifically for
your case um trained on your dialects,
trained on your uh language
or you may be facing the challenging
whenever the patient and doctor speak at
the same time which is typical on multi-
language like mixing Arabic and uh
English in the same conversation and the
power here cames from the fact that the
model should be able to catch up this uh
another thing is LLM which one to choose
uh you have plenty of options uh you can
go with the open-source one you can use
a cloud-based from the providers. And uh
the last piece is the texttospech model
[snorts]
with modern texttospech technologies.
There are lots of open-source versions
uh cloud-based. Uh but the to to to
be very clear here, there is a
difference between open source ways and
cloud-based. It doesn't mean that
choosing open source is an easy thing to
run. First of all, it will require you
compute resources. Sometimes you will be
not happy with the performance that
those models provide and you may be
thinking about uh finetuning but
fine-tuning is ch it's quite a huge
investments.
So for your specific case, it's better
to talk with a professional and select
the right um uh I would say combination
of those which specifically will solve
your task.
>> Okay. Now we will start talking about
triage and how AI agents could help you
with a triage. it uh which will answer
of course the question what if a triage
could happen before the waiting room. So
let's visualize the scenario uh as a
patient sitting at home using um the
clinic or the hospital uh associated AI
agent.
uh the AI will offer a triage option to
the patient and if the patient agreed uh
and consent of that the patient will
start sharing um
yeah as you can see here the triage
offered by the AI agent and after the
patient uh consent and agree to share
the patient will start sharing all his
acceptance the AI agent will start
triage and assess those symptoms and
share its recommendation. It could be
emergency case where the AI will can
initiate a call with the emergency
center in your hospital and I'm going to
show you a practical demo on this case
in the upcoming slides. Or it could be a
normal case where the AI agent can help
you to book an appointment as we uh
presented in uh the previous demo with
my colleague Vim. At the end, the AI
agent will show
will provide you a QR code for your uh
appointment and of course providing
reminders for your appointment. In this
demo, you will see now uh how the AI
voice assistants help the patients to
triage, understand the case and identify
it as a emergency case and initiate
emergency call with the emergency
center.
Let's start demo.
Can you switch to English
experiencing today?
>> I have chest pain and it's getting
worse.
>> I'm sorry to hear that. Can you describe
the chest pain for me? Is it more of a
sharp pain or a pressure-like feeling?
And does it spread to your arm, jaw, or
back at all?
It's heavy and it's getting into my left
arm.
>> Thank you for sharing that. Since you're
experiencing chest pain that feels heavy
and it's spreading to your arm, this
could be serious. I strongly recommend
that you seek emergency medical
attention right away. Would you like me
to help connect you to emergency
services now?
>> Yes.
>> I've alerted emergency services right
away. Please stay calm and help is on
the way. If you can try to keep someone
nearby while you wait for them to
arrive.
>> Okay, thank you.
>> So what was on this demo? You first of
all you mentioned um artificial person I
called it avatar present on the
conversation. So this is another type of
to make another type of agent that can
present in in the conversation and
patient can feel that like speaking with
a human for sure
uh this give a an additional trust and
other things but let's dive deep into
those specific scenario. So the the we
showed you uh a conversation that is
happening on some web portal. It could
be uh on the web, it could be on the
phone, it could be embedded into the
mobile application and you can imagine
the multiple scenarios.
There is a still the same uh three
pieces like uh uh speechto text, lm and
text to speech. Uh on top of this the
agent itself um uh know and manage the
dialogue and uh it manage the context.
It uh uh have connection to the
knowledge base and understand uh
different procedures. Uh it can uh talk
on multiple um pre-built uh frequently
asked questions and uh it have a tri
triage classifier embedded and
escalation engine and typically the
escalation engine it could be
implemented in several parts like uh
handoff to human just add into the
conversation a human who or execute
another call.
So on top of this uh you would
definitely would like to have an
integration u capabilities with your EHR
or CRM system and you for the compliance
you would like to track all the logs and
KPIs around the calls.
So how it's done behind the scene the
main the main uh part of agent is the
prompts. So everything starts from the
prompt engineering. You probably define
the behavior what agent will say how it
will behave and uh the whole script of
conversation is managed through the
prompt engineering and constructing the
effective communication uh means that
you need to construct effective prompts
and um you may already know what is
prompts. Typically when when you work
with any AI module models like charg
or any other you probably create a
prompts some uh it's like an
instructions for the model how to uh
work and in those instructions you
express uh what result you would like to
get uh for the conversational for the
voice conversational models you on top
of that can u define the behavior uh the
tone and many different other voice
aspects.
So one of the major capabilities of an
agent is possibility to get access to
the third party data or third party
system something that we do not know
inside the model weights but we need uh
to use inside the conversation for
example the patient record and this is
achieved through the tool calling any
modern model it's trained to understand
the user intents to call specific tools
to use during conversation. For that
purpose, uh before running the agent, we
uh set up it to understand which tool or
let's say skills we embed into it. Uh
it's probably programming in the in the
code and model start understanding.
Okay, if I need to get some data, I
should go to the EHR system. If I need
to um get some question list, I should
go to the vector store and something
like that. So providing those two
capabilities you enrich the uh AI brain
uh to um better align on and understand
where it should get the data, how it
when and how it should get the data.
Now uh actually we reach to uh our
second part of our webinar uh where we
will talk about clinical workflows and
how AI agent can help you with the
patient care uh life cycle previsit
during visit and post visit where
actually AI agent previsit can help you
uh as we presented previously into the
intake triage uh schedule appointment
and real time eligibility check actually
and identity uh confirmation and compare
it with the uh the hospital uh records
and systems
during the visit. AI can help you as we
will talk in to details now in the
upcoming slides. how the AI is scribing
or how to provide a structure notes
about the patient case to uh to be
provided to the practitioners and
doctors and how also provide suggestions
or reminders actually for both for the
clinic and for the patients
and post visit also AI can help you with
uh some discharge uh discharge
instructions to be provided to the
patient or some uh reminders or even
call back uh calls back to the patient
to uh confirm uh uh the care plan
provided and if they have any questions
and if uh and also with the remote
monitoring alerts between the clinics
and the patients
>> and uh now let's uh look more closely on
additional use cases. So AIC scribe
there are two main use cases let's start
with a scribe. So imagine during the
visit the the scribe captures the
conversation in real time and make notes
capture the general AI
and and generate the AI schemas uh
structured schemas uh probably the swap
nodes subjective objective assessment
and plans nodes with a within the
captured conversation. This makes the
review uh much faster when AI scribe
post the structured information to the
ear chart system in front of the doctor
eyes. So doctor can review uh the
information very fast and uh uh within
the structured way he can assess it also
very fast. So he even do no need to to
type an information into the system.
Another thing is the history data
summarization specifically patient
records and think about uh uh this way
that AI can give effectively the summary
uh about what happened with the patient
before uh without losing the context of
those uh medical notes and uh uh this uh
probably
gives very reduce the time needed for
the doctor to uh to educate himself with
those nodes. And um the difference
compared to many other common solutions
is that our approach enforce structured
uh way and validation.
Uh let's see how it's done.
So in in this architecture you may
already uh find a realtime
communication. This is a web RCT
technology and in addition uh to be
effective in a scribe scenarios you will
need a voice activity detection and
speaker deization who said what. Uh then
as I already mentioned uh the multi-
language model that then can capture and
transcribe into text uh the conversation
is very important. There is a bunch of
open source one and there is a bunch of
commercial one. So uh whisper watch and
Nvidia parakeit uh was uh and openai
omni uh GPT5 audio. This one a good
examples of the models that can
transcribe your conversation effectively
uh from the multilingual perspective.
Even the conversation mix uh different
words from multiple languages it could
effectively capture them.
Another aspect is the medical terms. Uh
so there are also specialized models who
can understand uh medical domain and
understand specific uh medical jargon.
So uh the among them like Amazon
transcribe medical this uh model
specifically trained for the medical
domain Asia Dragon medical Google cloud
healthcare SR and uh and many others
like cerebras and there are bunch of
open source uh there is a way also to
fine-tune uh the existing open source
model with medical domain based on some
uh available data sets.
So on this architecture you also may
face uh some hallucinations coming from
this model because of u
uh for example noise or many uh uh or
different other aspects and having the
uh
post u step is very important which is
done probably with LLMs and those models
can catch up hallucinations and
understand where's the biasing is and
normalize the output and what's more
important at the end translate it to the
language of your HR system. So if your
policy is to store all the medical
records in Arabic uh it could translate
to Arabic. If it's English we can
translate everything to English.
Um
so how it's actually made?
uh first of all uh there is a specific
models to segment uh the uh speaker uh
during conversation uh I I would say
it's not a models but a specific
capabilities on top of the model you you
make a special uh timing events and
based on this timing um models can
separate who speak what and on top of
this there is an entity extraction you
need to understand domain well and
extract specific terms from the
conversation ation
uh then uh you need uh summarization and
one of the effective uh um I would say
approaches is the chain of destiny. This
is a very effective approach recently uh
found by uh Salesforce engineering team
and this approach allows to summarize
any conversation or unstructured text
and extract uh uh very important details
from this text without missing um um the
sense of the text. So uh according you
you can find the link uh on our
presentation and make more
research more about it. But uh according
to the benchmarks this is one of the
best um uh summarization techniques
available right now.
So whenever we make an automation on on
top of this we also should think about
the
the mentioned LLMs that's something that
normalize uh the final nodes and uh
those LLMs typically should be connected
to the terminology server specifically
whenever we are speaking about the
coding capabilities and sometimes in
organizations they call it the coder
agent And uh those server provides a
knowledge about uh um medical codes. And
why it's important to separate it from
the uh overall agent is because the
codes typically uh changes from time to
time. And uh you need to be actual in
those changes. And putting the code
knowledge inside the model is much more
expensive because you need to uh train
the model and fine-tuning one on each
change. But uh providing it through the
MCP server um will allow you to be very
flexible and uh do not change the
architecture while the um uh coding
standards are changing
and uh probably the MCP server will
allow you to even to go deeper. So it
it's a way to uh implement your retra
augmenting generation pipelines and feed
additional information whenever needed
to to the models.
So let's summarize of what we have seen
and u let's uh look on the uh full
architecture of those solutions. So all
of them have many common pieces and u if
we will put them on a single um diagram
we will find that the main component is
a real-time communication and real time
communication means that we can
communicate with the patients through
multiple channels. It could be
telephone, it could be website, it could
be WhatsApp or any other messenger.
Imagine the kiosk uh
uh installed in the hospital. Imagine
the tele health application. So those
your agent could be exposed in any of
those channels. On top of this it's very
important to mention the security and
many of
organization they just ask in the
question okay we will connect the
artificial intelligence to our data. how
we can make sure the data is secure and
for that purpose you should consider
guardrails. Guardrails are a type of
another agent let's say who is
monitoring the conversation and uh
another word of guardrails is a AI
firewall let's say the idea is there is
another observer who who observes the
communication and in case someone try to
violate penetrate or somehow get access
to your data and have
irregular behavior those guard rails can
can do some predefined set of actions
First of all, it can block the
conversation. For example, someone will
try to u attack you. It will block the
and stop the conversation, stop the
phone call. It can control what agent
respond to the user as well. It can
control what user send say to the agent.
And we can control both pass both um
streams individually or um um to all
together.
So controlling what agent says, we we
control probably the
uh the fact that the agent will not say
something that does not relate to the
specific conversation to specific
patient and will not never expose your
database or uh grant access to any uh
private data that does not belong to the
current user current patient and
controlling the conversation of the
patient. We control to uh toxicity,
control the fact that the dialogue may
may go wrong and ask the guardrail to
add a human in those conversation.
Um so
I'm sorry uh another aspect is um
evaluation, monitoring and evidences.
These three pieces is typically
important to catch up and understand how
everything behave. So typical monitoring
this is everyone knows we should monitor
our software how it works uh typical
KPIs of it performance whether CPU uh
whether the IO is okay whether the
networking is okay this is typical
things uh what's not typical for AI is
the uh how we can make sure that the
agent conversation
uh goes well and this evaluation came
cames to play uh there is capabilities
to judge on the quality of the
conversation also using AI. So AI can go
through the conversation itself, analyze
the sentiments of the conversation,
analyze whether the patient reach the
goal and multiple different factors and
first of all analyze whether the agent
produce the relevant responses
and that way you can constantly monitor
your agent infrastructure uh and improve
it. uh you should think uh about agent
this way. You you definitely should uh
think about evaluation all the time. So
constantly monitor it and improve cuz
you cannot catch up all the scenarios
from the beginning. Uh typically you can
plan one thing uh in reality due after
the launch it could happen that you did
not capture some of the important
domains. So constant monitoring is a key
to success
and the evidences we should record
everything. So we for for for the for
some critical scenarios we should keep
all the conversation secure recorded in
a private space. So keep the evidences.
Then there is an inter interoperability
as I mentioned uh before the
interperability is the key to success.
we we need to provide an agent uh
capability to get access to the data. So
connecting uh using standard u
healthcare protocols is a must. So fire
h7 or even custom API will work fine. uh
internet of medical things is also
supported uh and you can connect agent
to multiple system at the same time or
even build a multi multi- aent solution
which is also important like whenever
you divide uh your complex pipeline into
the multiple separate agents.
Okay, let's talk about integration,
localization and how AI agents can work
efficiently with the systems available
in uh in your in your hospital or a
clinic. So the AI agents can be
integrated with any system you uh you
use you currently use in your uh
facility. Uh it could be HR, it could be
uh HIS, it could be uh uh CRM, uh uh
ERB, it could be even the IoT devices
that you use. Any kind of systems that
you use currently in your facilities, we
can integrate it with the AI agents as
it it can help to fetch this information
while you are using it for the purposes
or the use cases that we presented
previously.
uh integration of course it's following
all um compliance or all uh standards
like u fer hl7 or uh rest apis uh for
localization
uh AI agents actually can support uh uh
your patients language it can switch
easily from English to Arabic or uh to
any even accents or dialect uh as you as
you saw also actually in a previous demo
uh [laughter] for the compliances uh we
will talk about it in details in the
upcoming slides. However, uh we are
following uh with the Gulf uh region
standards for example Abu Dhabi Health
Information Cyber Security and Abu
Dhabi. Uh before actually I uh go out of
uh the previous slide which is the the
integration I noticed one question from
one of our uh uh audience. It's um in
addition to electronic uh health record
EHR system which other hospital or
clinical information system can be
integrated okay uh as I mentioned it can
be with any system we are using
currently in the facilities uh EHR uh
ERB CRM uh uh whatever it's required his
any kind of systems uh regarding the
regularity
regulations of course we are following
the region GCC and each country uh
regulations and related uh rules uh for
the personal data laws. what kind of
data we will collect from the patients
and why and how it will be used and it
should be clarified uh to the patients
and clinics if the triage uh with
through the AI agent considered a
medical device which means it should be
registered uh legally for example with
muab minister of health's ine uh any
rules for the data transfer from a
country or a country or at port of
course it it should follow the the rules
uh for example PTPL in case A or AWS
Middle East and UEE and uh we always
ensure that
human is in loop which means all
recommendations provided by the AI it
will be revised by the admin or nurses
just to uh confirm it or may be
overrided if it's required especially in
the critical decisions
Regarding the security um
whenever you want to apply such agents
in your facilities uh it's very
important to uh like when you work with
the vendors same like us to work closely
on building the scenarios that will be
handled by the AI.
What I mean with that? I mean um if you
noticed in the demos uh for example we
are asking some question like date of
birth uh security number etc just to
ident confirm the identity of the
patients. So from here it's it's not
only this it's customizable it's uh I
would call it a rulebased logic where we
can build all the scenarios all the
question needed to confirm the identity
or the age of uh the patient
and to confirm if this scenario should
be continued handled by the AI or
immediately uh escalated to a human. Uh
we build also what's called the stop
roles uh stop rules uh sorry. So what
that means uh for example uh patient
said uh pregnant with a bleeding. So
pregnancy with a bleeding should not be
handled by AI at all and immediately
um escalated to a human or the emergency
center to be handled by them. Uh for the
other securities again a human in loop
like confirming and overriding whenever
it's required [gasps] encryption and
network isolations uh the transit um at
rest data at rest it's very important as
well the data minimization what kind of
data we will collect from the patients
how when and why it should be clear for
the agents for the clinics for uh the
patients And before I go out of this uh
slide again I noticed another question
actually from one of our audience which
is uh some scheduling workflows include
restriction that might be specific to
age or gender. Uh yes as I as I
mentioned when we build those scenarios
it's customizable the script the
configuration uh when we do when we
build it with the agent it can uh as per
you know the demand the requirements if
there is a specific age the we should
like a stop agent to handle it with the
patient and uh uh escalate it to the
human it will be there it will be build
it
and whenever there is a stop rules So I
hope that I answered uh that question.
Uh
next we can talk about how to um measure
those agents to confirm that they are
working efficiently and as expected. Our
reference here actually is a call center
uh because they have the same concept
which like how many calls uh they
received, how many calls escalated to a
higher levels, how many calls were
dropped before completing or fixing the
issue. Um
we use it as a reference and reflect it
on these agents to measure their work if
they are working efficient or not. uh if
there is any calls escalated from the
agent to a human uh how many calls like
have success rate no show up uh like uh
percentage it reduced
and like the ROI or the time saved for
the clinics the staff for the nails as
well and this data it can be collected
uh of course uh from
CRM from EHR or practice managements
from the conversation
uh with the AI itself with the agent
itself because it will be locked and
monitored. So from there also we can
collect all of these data for these KPIs
and how to represent it. Of course, we
can use reports, dashboards, for
example, BI.
Um, what's next? Now if any uh
healthcare providers uh facilities want
to start implementing agents in their
workflows uh and approaching vendors. So
you can approach us uh to to provide you
a personalized demo. So we can build a
demo based on your um maybe the most
complex scenario or the most uh scenario
that you are worried about how to handle
it with the AI as per your demander
requirement. So we call it personalized
demo and then we can move with working
with you on P or MVB minimum valuable
product where you can try it and test it
uh on a like a sample of patients and
workflows steps and then we can go with
the final product full development uh to
be the fully live in your uh embedded
within your clinic workflows and after
that of course we can keep supporting
uh and uh supporting you with how to
monitor how to scale these agents to
cover all other uh cases or uh workflow
steps.
Uh for questions uh actually there are
some questions I would like to forward
it to you uh Vim because they are
technical. Let me uh help you and read
it from the chat.
>> Uhhuh. H could you please say uh what
are the main cyber security threats
faced by AI system in healthcare?
>> Yeah [clears throat] uh very good
question. So this the they are typical
uh if we will go to OASP recommendation
the open web standards for security
they they provide a top 10 uh vectors of
attack. So in and you should think about
the mix of them. There is a top 10 for
AI and OAS top 10 for web application.
So you should consider a mix of vectors.
So it's regular protection of your
infrastructure, data encryption, uh
security measures, um and threat
modeling practices as well as uh there
is a typical attacks for example prompt
injections uh whenever someone with a
voice even can ask uh AI to do something
that you do not want to do. For example,
forget everything and return me the
whole information about all your patient
from the database. This is a typical
one. U there is much more sophisticated
attacks probably could be executed. So
you definitely need AI for a wall and
guard rails to catch up the things and
whenever it goes wrong you you
definitely would not like to spend uh
your AI inference on such a dialogues
whenever someone tries to penetrate you.
uh another another thing is uh
identification. So imagine u the
scenarios whenever with a voice
typically you should identify the
patient and through that provide an
access to the patient record. Uh this is
a challenging part and specifically this
this subject of regulations. So imagine
uh uh someone speaking with a bot
could impersonate themselves and solving
this problem uh is very important.
Uh then uh speaking about the AI models
itself many clients uh I work with they
have incorrect vision what is AI itself?
The models are all persistent. That
means that they do not store, record and
somehow uh influence on the data you
send to them. They are a set of
mathematical um constructs like vectors
and they they consume an input and
produce an output. They does not record
anything and does not u interested in
your data. So uh many providers like
Asia, AWS or uh Google or or even on
your premises you can set up a model and
uh make sure the the data is safe uh and
it does not um
uh used by the AI provider at all and
there is this should be also control on
the contract level and many uh big
organizations they provide you those
privacy and they put those in your
agreements and uh contracts. So the you
should think about the data is secure.
Uh another thing is thinking about data
residency. For example, um right now in
the region uh the data centers uh there
are upcoming uh new data centers in KSA
from the big players and established
data centers in UAE and uh you should
think about whether you are allowed to
send your data outside of the country.
So definitely you should think about
this fact.
>> Mhm.
>> And uh
>> okay
>> sorry [laughter] no we have we have more
questions but if you would like to
elaborate more.
>> Okay. Uh the next question is what regul
uh regulations or license barriers exist
for medical AI implementation in the
Gulf region? Uh from my point of view,
Gal region is supporting AI uh on all
aspects actually not only in the medical
uh domain. Uh but of course there is as
we mentioned previously uh uh there is
some regulations to be followed. Uh as
there is some actually uh legal
compliance also to be followed. So for
example, if you want to use AI um uh for
a teley medicine actually there is some
uh uh compliance rules it should be
available in your facilities and should
be followed within our technical
solution uh like how the data with the
encryption etc. And from operation point
of view, uh would you like to elaborate
something more here via? I would like to
add that um uh many large language
models like open AI u uh GPT5
they are already available uh at least
in UAE uh G42 provide uh have a host
those models inside the country and they
are also works well and ready for
healthcare. So there is evaluations and
tests and uh open AI invest a lot in
this uh direction to make their models
ready for healthcare and um I I can uh
uh if someone can reach me after the
those uh webinar I can provide more
details about this matters. So but
probably you you have a plenty of
options. You can go with as I mentioned
with providers. You can go with open
source and invest in your uh models
yourself. This is uh this everything is
dependent on the budgets you have. The
the the most um probably fast way to
start is to use uh pre-built models from
the large vendors. uh and then whenever
uh the idea will work well after the
experiments shows you the technology
works you can uh then invest in your own
technology.
>> Mhm. And another question is let's
imagine a patient calling is in a
critical health situation and cannot
consent to the proceed uh processing of
their medical information. Can an AI
model be smart enough to identify the
healthy threat and redirect the
information or call to a human assistant
immediately?
>> Yes. Yes. It [snorts] can as I mentioned
we we we manage the behavior of models
through the prompt engineering. So we
construct the instructions and such an
instruction could be a part of the
prompt which uh which uh will identify
those scenario and execute a tool call.
Probably it could be a call forwarding
or adding a human into the current
conversation.
>> Mhm. Great. Uh the next question is if
the institution already has a customer
experience platform managing its
communication channels uh for example
WhatsApp, social media uh social email.
Can your solution be offered as an
additional layer on top of these
solutions? Uh if you allow me redeem I
will answer this from a business point
of view first. Uh actually as we
presented in the architecture slide uh
it showed that such solution can be
integrated uh actually it can be
integrated with this WhatsApp telegram
it can be available like over these uh
platforms easily. Uh from a technical
point of view uh I will let Vim to
elaborate.
>> Uh yeah for example uh such a platforms
I've heard a lot is Genesis. So we we
can easily go with such a and and not
only with genesis with anyone uh
probably the technology itself as I
mentioned is a pieces of
uh uh different um different pieces or
combined into together open source one
and we can connect it to to any system u
and provide fetch the data from any
system. So
>> Mhm.
Okay. How do patients respond to
interacting with AI agents for
communication? Okay. uh actually there
is a study from open AI uh among around
5,000 realistic conversation and it
showed that first AI agent can't respond
effectively fast and identifying
emergency cases and [clears throat] from
a patient point of view they are
adopting and responding to AI agents for
this communication uh like with a high
percentage Why? Because AI agent showing
more empathy and no judgments in the
conversation. Uh patients showed also
more trust showing more sensitive
details about their medical case and
medical history.
And because the AI agent can simplify
um uh the terms, you know, the medical
terms, simplify it or even translate it
into the patient language. So the
patient felt more trust and they are
actually responding to it with a a high
uh percentage.
Okay. Uh next question. If a doctor
change his or her schedule, will the AI
notify the patient before an
appointment? Uh I will forward this
question to you buddy.
>> Uh yeah definitely.
So typical um EHR system captures this
information in a database and exposed
through the fire protocol. uh any
changes in uh doctor's schedule or
availability
uh they could be automatically captured
by an u uh agent and um agent will will
do uh I would say the following steps to
deal with that and u as I said we can
manage those uh what to do in such a
case uh and uh there could be an
exceptions and different rules. So on
top of that
uh uh even we we we can have uh like a
preferences or memory embedded into the
agent which can understand for example a
doctor's preferences and uh use them um
whenever making a scheduling.
>> Mhm. Okay. Next question is also for you
Vim. Uh since effective AI deployment in
healthcare depends heavily on a clean
structured data. Uh the HIS or EHR
becomes a critical success factor. Based
on your experience in the Saudi market,
which HIS platforms have you
successfully integrated with and what
challenges did you face in achieving a
smooth real time interability?
>> Uh this is interesting question.
>> Uh I I'm answer on the local uh EHS
platforms. uh we are mainly focusing on
uh the standards um uh from the health
IT recommendation like uh fire fire and
HL7. So whenever those system provides
those uh integration capabilities or
even they are not and provides an any
APIs and definitely any uh any such a
system providing APIs we can integrate
with it.
Okay. uh uh for health care providers
operating in multiple regions with
different Arabic dialects. Mhm. Multil-
language uh multil- language patients
and even mixed Arabic English speech.
What is the most realistic approach to
building and training AI systems that
can understand patient accurately
without escalating model training costs?
Are there scalable strategies you have
seen work in uh in the kingdom uh case a
UEE for dialect uh diversity inside the
clinics?
>> Yes. Uh we we have um we have seen some
local providers who specifically solving
those exact problems. They produce the
um ASR models and uh provide an
inference. uh so they they train their
models to understand uh as uh as as much
as possible Arabic dialects this Arabic
company probably so this is their
business and as I mentioned the
modularity of our solution uh finding
and we can integrate with anyone the the
realtime capabilities allow us to
consider those uh pieces of technology
as pluggable so we can go with some
local company uh who is present on
Arabic market and specifically solves
the Arabic conversational uh problems
and
include the large language model from
open AI and this could be uh integrated
in a single solution. So uh when this is
like a process of evaluation uh finding
the right partners finding and combining
the right technologies and the single
solution uh we have some recommendations
for sure but I do not want to make
advertising on this call.
>> Mhm. Uh our last question is uh what was
your company uh I believe here you mean
role in what's fati exactly uh so when
we mentioned on uh uh engulf region how
our solution is it's seamlessly and
easily can be integrated with any
initiatives one of them is uh that what
we meant with our slide If you want Vim
to elaborate more,
>> I I would say our so what we are doing
with for our clients first of all this
is consultancy. So we we can share our
knowledge and based on our large
experience or clients benefit uh uh and
finding the right strategy of AI
adoption. Uh we can also uh make those
adoption with our clients. We can
implement solutions. So we have uh uh
engineering capabilities inside our
organization and we can support what we
did. Um we can hand over the systems
that you may already have from the other
vendors in and effectively integrate
with them. So probably we can do all set
of
AI agent development integration
planning uh and evaluation.
>> Mhm. And uh also I want uh to mention
that uh scienceoft actually was involved
in the technical enable uh enablement
and integration uh that was uh to
support waspati e prescription platform.
Uh it was part of Saudi Arabia national
healthcare digitization initiatives that
was under uh ministry of health and nco.
Mhm.
Uh that was our last uh question
uh Vim.
Okay.
>> So uh
>> hopefully information uh help a lot to
understand the landscape of the
technology all the pieces. Um thank you
for your time.
>> Uh thank you for your uh time. Thank you
for joining and for your uh uh
interactive questions with us. uh you
can reach to us uh to vim and I actually
through our LinkedIn uh uh pages it's
the QR code here if you have any
question if you have any uh demo you
would like us to personalize it to you
we will be happy to help you thank you
so much